Chapter 2
For many years the Dwarves lived in peace, with Sloviak as their leader, reaping the gems and metals that Ulaa left for them in their dirt homes, and all was good. Then one day Hextor glanced at all Ulaa had done for the Dwarves and became jealousy of the peace that the Dwarves had. So he started to sow discord among the dwarves, suppling arguments against Sloviak BlessedHeart, and discontent about his leadership.  

For many moons, Hextor worked upon the dwarves, and as he worked, he drew some of them deeper into the shadows. He justified the un-just, and spoke heresies to those who would listen, and cared not for the land, but raped and soiled it. In this, and many other manners, he brought out of the worst of the dwarves nature. And those that followed him began to change. For their skin slowly lost the hues of life and turned to those of the shadows, and along with it went their resolve in all things except one, to serve themselves, and no other. When Hextor had thus stolen the dwarves he started to call for the removal and banishment of Sloviak BlessedHeart. With tales of deceit and woes, he described not the tale of the hills, but one of sorrow, and slavery for the dwarves. Stating that they were not in command of the land as Ulaa had said, but rather a slave to her, gathering what she wants, and not what they want. When he believed the dwarves were ready for his massacre, he left the Dwarves, to gather his army. 

Haxtor went to the chief of the Orcs, and spread lies as dark as the night, telling of a treasure the dwarves horded, and insults they directed at the orcs. Soon the chief was enraged at the Dwarves that he gathered his clan to take revenge for the things that Haxtor had spoken of. And so the war began, with the dwarves at each others neck and the orcs on the door step. Yet Haxtor had forgotten one tiny detail about the dwarves that he had spent so much time corrupting. He had forgotten the simple, yet earned, loyalty that the dwarves had for Sloviak BlessedHeart. One that through the years of leadership, and wisdom had grown to a fervent level even among the young. And so, as the Orcs approached, the dwarves stood side by side, and defended their home, as Ulaa had commanded. 

The conflict produced many glorious battles before resolving into a siege on the dwarven homes. The siege went on for many years, before Sloviak BlessedHeart was visited by Ulaa in a dream. In which Ulaa said "For what do you wait? Your enemies starve you out like rats, and all you do is sit? Did I not gift you protection from your your enemies? Did I not instruct you to defend your people?" "Forgive me goddess, for I did not know you meant for me wage a war, only to defend against attack" replied Sloviak. "Are they not one and the same, for you cannot defend your people by letting them starve, nor can you wage wars with out defense against your enemy." said Ulaa, "Now go and free the hold which your enemy has placed upon you." So Sloviak awoke and went as Ulaa had commanded, leaving the protection of his cave to stand in front of the orc army. As he stood facing the his enemy, he heard Ulaa's voice say to him, "Lift your hammer, so that I may aid in your assault". Following the command, Sloviak raise his great hammer to the sky calling out to Ulaa "For it is you, who gave me this hammer, and to you whom i raise it, for in your strength I find my strength." Then a great bolt came down from the Heavens and struck the hammers head, causing all who looked upon to turn their heads away or be blinded. When their vision returned, they saw not Dwarf with a hammer, but a warrior with his glowing weapon. Without looking back, Sloviak then charged the Orc armies head on, wielding the glowing instrument of orcish death. Embolden by their leader, the rest of the Dwarves, man and women, charged into the orc armies, brandishing only what they had in hand. This sudden change of character confused and frightened the orcs, for they had not meet a race with such disregard for their lives, nor ones that wielded glowing weapons. Thus shortly after the initial assault, the orc armies turned and fled from the dwarves home, leaving all of their gear, and food behind. 

When Sloviak had chased the last of the orcs of his land, he called for his people to return to their home. When they returned, they saw the devastation that the orcs had left upon the land, and were ashamed. Upon seeing the devastation, Sloviak called forth all of the dwarves that had been causing strife and pain among the people, saying "Why have you strayed so far from the way? From where did you gather these unjust ideals? Who told you that Ulaa was not the one whom gave us our home?" "For I only know of one source for all of this, and he is not of our way, nor our mind. He way only leads to discord, strife, and death. These are the things he stands for, and works toward, with little regard for anything or anyone, destroying any obstacles, or impediments in his way." Sloviak reprimanded "For your heresies against Ulaa, and the strife you've cause among our people, I can only think of one punishment. You must leave and find your own home, where you will not bother the good folk of Ulaa. You will not return to these lands under penalty of death. Yet as Ulaa has granted us mercy, so shall I you, I will give you 1 span to atone for your grievances, or too gather your supplies, which ever you choose. In 1 span and a day, I will send out a patrol to cast you out with out mercy." "But how will you know if we have atoned, or if we should be cast out?" asked the convicted " for even among ourselves, we cannot tell the just from the unjust." "That is because He has taken that from you, for you there is only shadow in your eyes, and despair in your heart." replied Sloviak "Now begone with yea, and prepare, for justice is coming." At this the crowd dispersed, and went about their duties. Yet the un-atoned, fearing being cast out into the world, fled deeper into the caves, disappearing from all further contact. 

Once Sloviak had dealt with the followers of Haxtor, he looked again at the land and weep, crying "Ulaa, please forgive us, for you gave us a task, and we have failed. Please allow us to atone for our wrong, and restore the land." With this sentiment, and to give thanks for their victory over the Orcs, Sloviak decreed that a tithe of the spoils of war were to be given to the goddess, and her disciples.  Ulaas disciples accepted the gift, and used it to create a great temple to Ulaa, where both disciples and non-disciples may ask for her blessings and forgiveness. Along with the tithe, Sloviak instructed his people, including himself, to work to restore the gift that Ulaa had given them. They did this by planting trees, dredging the rivers, and many other things. Many years later, when their task had been completed, Ulaa returned to Sloviak in a dream stating "My blessings be upon you, for when you fail, you do what is right and just, atoning for your failures, and asking for forgiveness. These things are in line with what I wish upon you and your people, and to show you my gratitude, you will awake with the knowledge of my gift, seek it out, so that all may know that you have my favor" With these word Ulaa left Sloviak to rest for her gift was buried deep beneath the earth, and he would need his strength to fetch it.
