32,046 words -Book of Genesis
Chapter 1
In the beginning, there was only the unnamed. They did not know from wince they came, nor to where they went. They did not follow the way, for they way was unknown. For thousands of years, the unnamed wandered the land. They had no purpose, nor home, for there was no place to rest. The land was flat and barren, with little to eat. And the beasts that roamed the land preyed upon the un-named. 
 
Then from the Heavens, Ulaa looked upon the unnamed, and felt pity. She descended from the Heavens in a shaft of Light and fire. As she descended, the unnamed hid behind rock and grass, for all they knew was fear.  As they hid, Ulaa called to them saying "Come forth, for I have seen your plight, and will give you rest." Though scared, some among the unnamed came forth, and knelt at Ulaa's feet, with one saying "Rest we need, but there is no place to lay our burden". To which Ulaa responded "Give forth your tool and I will provide". The unnamed brought forth their tool, a small rock hammer used to crack nuts, and gave it to Ulaa.  When they handed the tool to Ulaa, she infused it with power. Lengthening the handle, and enlarging the head to that of the unnamed'd head, then it began to glow. Bright as the Sun the hammer glowed, shining for the world to see, and casting those hidden into the deepest of shadows. After a moment, the hammers glow dissipated, replaced by a reflection of the goddess herself. Ulaa said to the one whom had given her his tool. 

"Gather your people, for you must be together, or you will surely lose your life". And so the unnamed did as they we bid, gathering at the place in front of Ulaa. When they had done as bid, Ulaa turned away from them and raised the now huge hammer above her head, and brought it down upon the ground with a mighty blow. The blow shook the land, sending forth a wave, from which sprung the mountains, hills, and valleys. Then Ulaa turned to the unnamed being and said "Take this hammer and strike the ground, to show it that I have given you reign upon it." Thus the unnamed did as was bidden, and thus a smaller wave left from the hammer. A wave that opened caves in the mountains and hills, and caused cracks in the valleys and along the land.

After doing as bid, the unnamed returned the hammer to Ulaa, but was rebuked. "Keep this hammer, and defend your people, for though the land may obey, the beasts do not." spoke Ulaa, "Settle in the caves, and atop the hills and Mountains, for these are your new home, and will keep you from harm. But beware, for though the cave provides shelter, it also provides Shadow, in which things of hate and chaos reside. Do let let your people practice these things, for they are not of the law. Nor do they benefit your people". 

"And what of others?" asked the unnamed. "Be wary of others, but do not be unkind, for they may bring you great joy, but may also bring you equivalent sorrow." Ulaa replied. And so did the unnamed, moving into the caves and onto the hills and mountains. When they had done this the unnamed asked Ulaa "Will you lead our clan, so that we may be happy and prosper?" "No", she replied "For I cannot lead the dwarves to that end, and thus you must take that role. Lead your people, and grant them security, for many will try to take what I have given you, and protect it as you would a child. For this task I shall name thee Sloviak BlessedHeart, and all will know your name." Thus the dwarves made the caves, hills and mountains their home, protecting and caring for them as they did their own children.

With this final remark Ulaa left in the same manner in which she had come. As she left a great storm rolled over the land, as if the Goddess herself had summoned it. It washed away their old tracks and old lives and filled the cracks in the land, creating rivers and lakes from which the dwarves could drink. When the storm had passed, the dwarves left the caves to plant and forage, and begin their life anew.
 
Chapter 2
For many years the Dwarves lived in peace, with Sloviak as their leader, reaping the gems and metals that Ulaa left for them in their dirt homes, and all was good. Then one day Hextor glanced at all Ulaa had done for the Dwarves and became jealousy of the peace that the Dwarves had. So he started to sow discord among the dwarves, suppling arguments against Sloviak BlessedHeart, and discontent about his leadership.  

For many moons, Hextor worked upon the dwarves, and as he worked, he drew some of them deeper into the shadows. He justified the un-just, and spoke heresies to those who would listen, and cared not for the land, but raped and soiled it. In this, and many other manners, he brought out of the worst of the dwarves nature. And those that followed him began to change. For their skin slowly lost the hues of life and turned to those of the shadows, and along with it went their resolve in all things except one, to serve themselves, and no other. When Hextor had thus stolen the dwarves he started to call for the removal and banishment of Sloviak BlessedHeart. With tales of deceit and woes, he described not the tale of the hills, but one of sorrow, and slavery for the dwarves. Stating that they were not in command of the land as Ulaa had said, but rather a slave to her, gathering what she wants, and not what they want. When he believed the dwarves were ready for his massacre, he left the Dwarves, to gather his army. 

Haxtor went to the chief of the Orcs, and spread lies as dark as the night, telling of a treasure the dwarves horded, and insults they directed at the orcs. Soon the chief was enraged at the Dwarves that he gathered his clan to take revenge for the things that Haxtor had spoken of. And so the war began, with the dwarves at each others neck and the orcs on the door step. Yet Haxtor had forgotten one tiny detail about the dwarves that he had spent so much time corrupting. He had forgotten the simple, yet earned, loyalty that the dwarves had for Sloviak BlessedHeart. One that through the years of leadership, and wisdom had grown to a fervent level even among the young. And so, as the Orcs approached, the dwarves stood side by side, and defended their home, as Ulaa had commanded. 

The conflict produced many glorious battles before resolving into a siege on the dwarven homes. The siege went on for many years, before Sloviak BlessedHeart was visited by Ulaa in a dream. In which Ulaa said "For what do you wait? Your enemies starve you out like rats, and all you do is sit? Did I not gift you protection from your your enemies? Did I not instruct you to defend your people?" "Forgive me goddess, for I did not know you meant for me wage a war, only to defend against attack" replied Sloviak. "Are they not one and the same, for you cannot defend your people by letting them starve, nor can you wage wars with out defense against your enemy." said Ulaa, "Now go and free the hold which your enemy has placed upon you." So Sloviak awoke and went as Ulaa had commanded, leaving the protection of his cave to stand in front of the orc army. As he stood facing the his enemy, he heard Ulaa's voice say to him, "Lift your hammer, so that I may aid in your assault". Following the command, Sloviak raise his great hammer to the sky calling out to Ulaa "For it is you, who gave me this hammer, and to you whom i raise it, for in your strength I find my strength." Then a great bolt came down from the Heavens and struck the hammers head, causing all who looked upon to turn their heads away or be blinded. When their vision returned, they saw not Dwarf with a hammer, but a warrior with his glowing weapon. Without looking back, Sloviak then charged the Orc armies head on, wielding the glowing instrument of orcish death. Embolden by their leader, the rest of the Dwarves, man and women, charged into the orc armies, brandishing only what they had in hand. This sudden change of character confused and frightened the orcs, for they had not meet a race with such disregard for their lives, nor ones that wielded glowing weapons. Thus shortly after the initial assault, the orc armies turned and fled from the dwarves home, leaving all of their gear, and food behind. 

When Sloviak had chased the last of the orcs of his land, he called for his people to return to their home. When they returned, they saw the devastation that the orcs had left upon the land, and were ashamed. Upon seeing the devastation, Sloviak called forth all of the dwarves that had been causing strife and pain among the people, saying "Why have you strayed so far from the way? From where did you gather these unjust ideals? Who told you that Ulaa was not the one whom gave us our home?" "For I only know of one source for all of this, and he is not of our way, nor our mind. He way only leads to discord, strife, and death. These are the things he stands for, and works toward, with little regard for anything or anyone, destroying any obstacles, or impediments in his way." Sloviak reprimanded "For your heresies against Ulaa, and the strife you've cause among our people, I can only think of one punishment. You must leave and find your own home, where you will not bother the good folk of Ulaa. You will not return to these lands under penalty of death. Yet as Ulaa has granted us mercy, so shall I you, I will give you 1 span to atone for your grievances, or too gather your supplies, which ever you choose. In 1 span and a day, I will send out a patrol to cast you out with out mercy." "But how will you know if we have atoned, or if we should be cast out?" asked the convicted " for even among ourselves, we cannot tell the just from the unjust." "That is because He has taken that from you, for you there is only shadow in your eyes, and despair in your heart." replied Sloviak "Now begone with yea, and prepare, for justice is coming." At this the crowd dispersed, and went about their duties. Yet the un-atoned, fearing being cast out into the world, fled deeper into the caves, disappearing from all further contact. 

Once Sloviak had dealt with the followers of Haxtor, he looked again at the land and weep, crying "Ulaa, please forgive us, for you gave us a task, and we have failed. Please allow us to atone for our wrong, and restore the land." With this sentiment, and to give thanks for their victory over the Orcs, Sloviak decreed that a tithe of the spoils of war were to be given to the goddess, and her disciples.  Ulaas disciples accepted the gift, and used it to create a great temple to Ulaa, where both disciples and non-disciples may ask for her blessings and forgiveness. Along with the tithe, Sloviak instructed his people, including himself, to work to restore the gift that Ulaa had given them. They did this by planting trees, dredging the rivers, and many other things. Many years later, when their task had been completed, Ulaa returned to Sloviak in a dream stating "My blessings be upon you, for when you fail, you do what is right and just, atoning for your failures, and asking for forgiveness. These things are in line with what I wish upon you and your people, and to show you my gratitude, you will awake with the knowledge of my gift, seek it out, so that all may know that you have my favor" With these word Ulaa left Sloviak to rest for her gift was buried deep beneath the earth, and he would need his strength to fetch it.

Chapter 3
As Sloviak awoke the next morning, he recalled the dream of Ulaa, and called together his council. "I have received a vision of the most magnificent stone we have ever beheled, though it lies deep within the heart of our home, and will be difficult to retrieve." he told them, " I intend to fetch it, and place it upon a pedastool for all to see, but first I must know that our people will be safe and cared for, until my return." "Why not send for a miner, My liege, and have him retrieve the gem for you?" ask one of the council, "That way you can be sure of your peoples safety, and have the stone to show to all." Sloviak replied "I will not do that, for the task is long, and full  of danger. Neither of which do I wish upon any member of my people. Therefore, I must go myself and fetch the gem." "Then who shall laed your people while you're away?" another member queried. "For this I do not know, For though I trust all of you, I do not wish to cause strife." "Then let us lead as a council, and with your blessing, we will elect a member to act as lead, who will have final say upon any ties we may run into." suggested a member. And so it was, with the council ruling, Sloviak prepared for his long journey of recovery. With a month worth of supply, and his farewells to his wife, children, and friends said, Sloviak left his home, traveling deep within the mines, and caves on his home. 

As Sloviak journeyed, he came across many wonders of his home. Large caverns that sparkled with precious gems, and metals of various kinds, majestic gorges, that held only the water that dripped from the ceiling, and rivers of unknown origin and unknown destination. Sloviak also saw horrors of the underground, fighting monsters with long claws and no eyes or larges eyes, and snake-like bodies. Yet most horrible of all, Sloviak caught glimpses of those that had been banished, cold campfire, the remains of animals that had been torn apart, and worst of all, chains of metal, used to capture and bind fellow persons. Upon seeing these chains, Sloviak became enraged, for he did not understand how one can justify the enslavement of others. 

With this rage in his heart, he began to track the forsaken, following their trail until he reached their village. When he reached the village, he saw that they had become more animal then dwarf, with skin so colorless, they could be mistaken for the land around them. As he watched he heard the crack of a whip, and the wails of the taken, which stoked the rage in his heart. Knowing that he was one, and they were many, he knew that he could not assault the village by normal means, for they would overwhelm him and then nothing would be accomplished. So he hatched a plan to restore the freedom of those taken, and divide the village. With great caution, Sloviak entered the village, moving among the homes, to places of those whom were held captive. Hesitantly, he spoke of his plan to those bound, for he knew that a word of the plan would mean his death. Using the bound, Sloviak caused strife among the village, stoking rivalries, and creating new. When Sloviak deemed the village about to crack, he sneaked into the leaders tent, and stole his weapon. with this, he freed the slaves and destroyed the chains, leaving the weapon to be found by the next guard to enter the tent. 

Leading the taken, Sloviak left the village to its own devices, as he knew that much suffering would come at the discovery of the freed bound. After some time Sloviak and the freed arrived at a grand cavern that Sloviak had previously visited. He then told them "Here you will wait, for I must complete my quest before I can lead you out of these tunnels." But the freed resisted, saying "How do we know that you will not just leave us for the grey ones to find?" "I will leave all of my belongings with you, except for my hammer, which has been given to me by Ulaa. In this you will know that I will return, for among my belongings will reside a token, given to me by my wife upon our first child's announcement. Though it my not look like much, I would spend my life searching for it, if I were to lose it." And so the freed stayed, building a small camp, and foraging in a lake that resided in the center, confident in Sloviak's return. 

Chapter 4
Sloviak, after parting with the freed, continued on, hoping that he was near the end of his journey. After journeying for several days, Sloviak came upon the mouth of a cavern, that he had not seen before. Upon entering the cavern, Sloviak was first drawn to a ray of bluish moonlight, that fell from what must have been a hole in the roof of the cavern, and there in the moonlight was the gem of his vision. As he admired it from the distance, it caught the light and reflected it back into the cavern, spilling out beams, as if it produced them itself. Sloviak started toward the gem, and as he went he took note of his surroundings. The cavern was the largest he'd ever seen, with no sight of the roof, except for the opening where the moonlight streamed in. Gems studded the walls in irregular patterns, and metal ores glimmered in shining veins along the floor, all reflecting the already reflected moonlight. 

When Sloviak touched the gem he entered a trance, in which Ulaa spoke to him saying. "Blessings be upon you Sloviak, for you have found your reward. Yet during your journey, you have also brought disappointment, for the ways stealth, and deception are not my ways, and though you did so to perform a noble deed, you still went against my will, and for this you must atone." To which Sloviak replied "Forgive me my lady, for I was brooding hate, and not kindness when I performed these action, and thus did not have a clear head to follow your ways. What may I do to atone for this wrong?" "For I see in your heart that your motives were good, and I see the hope of going home that you have given the freed, therefore for your atonement, you must deliver upon this hope, and return them to their homes, even though some live far from here." Ulaa intoned. "Then it shall be done my lady." said Sloviak. With this, Sloviak left his trance and gathered the gem in his hands. 
[Finds ruby, its huge, display at the temple, creation of Mountain and Ruby symbol for Ulaa]  


