Chapter 3
As Sloviak awoke the next morning, he recalled the dream of Ulaa, and called together his council. "I have received a vision of the most magnificent stone we have ever beheled, though it lies deep within the heart of our home, and will be difficult to retrieve." he told them, " I intend to fetch it, and place it upon a pedastool for all to see, but first I must know that our people will be safe and cared for, until my return." "Why not send for a miner, My liege, and have him retrieve the gem for you?" ask one of the council, "That way you can be sure of your peoples safety, and have the stone to show to all." Sloviak replied "I will not do that, for the task is long, and full  of danger. Neither of which do I wish upon any member of my people. Therefore, I must go myself and fetch the gem." "Then who shall laed your people while you're away?" another member queried. "For this I do not know, For though I trust all of you, I do not wish to cause strife." "Then let us lead as a council, and with your blessing, we will elect a member to act as lead, who will have final say upon any ties we may run into." suggested a member. And so it was, with the council ruling, Sloviak prepared for his long journey of recovery. With a month worth of supply, and his farewells to his wife, children, and friends said, Sloviak left his home, traveling deep within the mines, and caves on his home. 

As Sloviak journeyed, he came across many wonders of his home. Large caverns that sparkled with precious gems, and metals of various kinds, majestic gorges, that held only the water that dripped from the ceiling, and rivers of unknown origin and unknown destination. Sloviak also saw horrors of the underground, fighting monsters with long claws and no eyes or larges eyes, and snake-like bodies. Yet most horrible of all, Sloviak caught glimpses of those that had been banished, cold campfire, the remains of animals that had been torn apart, and worst of all, chains of metal, used to capture and bind fellow persons. Upon seeing these chains, Sloviak became enraged, for he did not understand how one can justify the enslavement of others. 

With this rage in his heart, he began to track the forsaken, following their trail until he reached their village. When he reached the village, he saw that they had become more animal then dwarf, with skin so colorless, they could be mistaken for the land around them. As he watched he heard the crack of a whip, and the wails of the taken, which stoked the rage in his heart. Knowing that he was one, and they were many, he knew that he could not assault the village by normal means, for they would overwhelm him and then nothing would be accomplished. So he hatched a plan to restore the freedom of those taken, and divide the village. With great caution, Sloviak entered the village, moving among the homes, to places of those whom were held captive. Hesitantly, he spoke of his plan to those bound, for he knew that a word of the plan would mean his death. Using the bound, Sloviak caused strife among the village, stoking rivalries, and creating new. When Sloviak deemed the village about to crack, he sneaked into the leaders tent, and stole his weapon. with this, he freed the slaves and destroyed the chains, leaving the weapon to be found by the next guard to enter the tent. 

Leading the taken, Sloviak left the village to its own devices, as he knew that much suffering would come at the discovery of the freed bound. After some time Sloviak and the freed arrived at a grand cavern that Sloviak had previously visited. He then told them "Here you will wait, for I must complete my quest before I can lead you out of these tunnels." But the freed resisted, saying "How do we know that you will not just leave us for the grey ones to find?" "I will leave all of my belongings with you, except for my hammer, which has been given to me by Ulaa. In this you will know that I will return, for among my belongings will reside a token, given to me by my wife upon our first child's announcement. Though it my not look like much, I would spend my life searching for it, if I were to lose it." And so the freed stayed, building a small camp, and foraging in a lake that resided in the center, confident in Sloviak's return. 
