Chapter 1
In the beginning, there was only the unnamed. They did not know from wince they came, nor to where they went. They did not follow the way, for they way was unknown. For thousands of years, the unnamed wandered the land. They had no purpose, nor home, for there was no place to rest. The land was flat and barren, with little to eat. And the beasts that roamed the land preyed upon the un-named. 
 
Then from the Heavens, Ulaa looked upon the unnamed, and felt pity. She descended from the Heavens in a shaft of Light and fire. As she descended, the unnamed hid behind rock and grass, for all they knew was fear.  As they hid, Ulaa called to them saying "Come forth, for I have seen your plight, and will give you rest." Though scared, some among the unnamed came forth, and knelt at Ulaa's feet, with one saying "Rest we need, but there is no place to lay our burden". To which Ulaa responded "Give forth your tool and I will provide". The unnamed brought forth their tool, a small rock hammer used to crack nuts, and gave it to Ulaa.  When they handed the tool to Ulaa, she infused it with power. Lengthening the handle, and enlarging the head to that of the unnamed'd head, then it began to glow. Bright as the Sun the hammer glowed, shining for the world to see, and casting those hidden into the deepest of shadows. After a moment, the hammers glow dissipated, replaced by a reflection of the goddess herself. Ulaa said to the one whom had given her his tool. 

"Gather your people, for you must be together, or you will surely lose your life". And so the unnamed did as they we bid, gathering at the place in front of Ulaa. When they had done as bid, Ulaa turned away from them and raised the now huge hammer above her head, and brought it down upon the ground with a mighty blow. The blow shook the land, sending forth a wave, from which sprung the mountains, hills, and valleys. Then Ulaa turned to the unnamed being and said "Take this hammer and strike the ground, to show it that I have given you reign upon it." Thus the unnamed did as was bidden, and thus a smaller wave left from the hammer. A wave that opened caves in the mountains and hills, and caused cracks in the valleys and along the land.

After doing as bid, the unnamed returned the hammer to Ulaa, but was rebuked. "Keep this hammer, and defend your people, for though the land may obey, the beasts do not." spoke Ulaa, "Settle in the caves, and atop the hills and Mountains, for these are your new home, and will keep you from harm. But beware, for though the cave provides shelter, it also provides Shadow, in which things of hate and chaos reside. Do let let your people practice these things, for they are not of the law. Nor do they benefit your people". 

"And what of others?" asked the unnamed. "Be wary of others, but do not be unkind, for they may bring you great joy, but may also bring you equivalent sorrow." Ulaa replied. And so did the unnamed, moving into the caves and onto the hills and mountains. When they had done this the unnamed asked Ulaa "Will you lead our clan, so that we may be happy and prosper?" "No", she replied "For I cannot lead the dwarves to that end, and thus you must take that role. Lead your people, and grant them security, for many will try to take what I have given you, and protect it as you would a child. For this task I shall name thee Sloviak BlessedHeart, and all will know your name." Thus the dwarves made the caves, hills and mountains their home, protecting and caring for them as they did their own children.

With this final remark Ulaa left in the same manner in which she had come. As she left a great storm rolled over the land, as if the Goddess herself had summoned it. It washed away their old tracks and old lives and filled the cracks in the land, creating rivers and lakes from which the dwarves could drink. When the storm had passed, the dwarves left the caves to plant and forage, and begin their life anew.